# Concussion project: 

Cases of concussions in the US keep increasing and are now up to 2 to 3 million incidents per year. While concussions are recoverable and usually not life-threatening, the degree and rate of recovery may vary depending on age, severity of the injury, and prior concussion history. A subsequent concussion prior to full recovery may lead to more severe brain damage and poorer outcomes. Electroencephalograph (EEG) recordings can identify brain dysfunctionality and abnormalities, such as after a concussion. Routine EEG monitoring can be a convenient method for reducing unreported injuries and preventing long-term damage, especially among groups with a greater risk of experiencing a concussion, such as athletes participating in contact sports. Due to the relative availability of EEG compared to other brain imaging techniques (e.g., functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI)), the use of EEG monitoring is growing for various neurological disorders. In this longitudinal study, EEG was analyzed from four football athletes prior to their athletic season and also within 7 days of concussion. Compared to a control group of four additional athletes, a concussion was detected with up to 99.5% accuracy using EEG recordings in the Theta-Alpha band. Classifiers which use data from only a subset of the EEG electrodes providing reliable detection are also proposed. The most effective classifiers used EEG recordings from the Central scalp region in the Beta band and over the Temporal scalp region using the Theta-Alpha band.

